---
layout: post
title: 关于metric的介绍
categories: [可观测, 监控,]
description: some thing about metrics
keywords: metrics, observe
mermaid: false
sequence: false
flow: false
mathjax: false
mindmap: false
mindmap2: false
---

# Metrics

在可观测和监控领域,不同的软件对此的标准和定义都有所不同.

Open Telemetry
> A metric is a measurement of a service captured at runtime. The moment of capturing a measurements is known as a metric event, which consists not only of the measurement itself, but also the time at which it was captured and associated metadata.

> Application and request metrics are important indicators of availability and performance. Custom metrics can provide insights into how availability indicators impact user experience or the business. Collected data can be used to alert of an outage or trigger scheduling decisions to scale up a deployment automatically upon high demand.

Elastic metricbeat
> Metricbeat is a lightweight shipper that you can install on your servers to periodically collect metrics from the operating system and from services running on the server. Metricbeat takes the metrics and statistics that it collects and ships them to the output that you specify, such as Elasticsearch or Logstash.

Prometheus
>The Prometheus client libraries offer four core metric types. These are currently only differentiated in the client libraries (to enable APIs tailored to the usage of the specific types) and in the wire protocol. The Prometheus server does not yet make use of the type information and flattens all data into untyped time series. This may change in the future.


这里说下, OpenTelemetry实际上是早期openTracing演化而来,OpenTelemetry 为收集遥测数据和将遥测数据导出到您选择的可观测性后端提供了一个共同框架。它会使用一组标准的、独立于供应商的 API、SDK 和工具来采集、转换和传输数据。大部分的可视化软件都支持 OpenTelemetry 协议 (OTLP) 

##  OpenTelemetry中metric定义
## Meter Provider
A Meter Provider (sometimes called MeterProvider) is a factory for Meters. In most applications, a Meter Provider is initialized once and its lifecycle matches the application’s lifecycle. Meter Provider initialization also includes Resource and Exporter initialization. It is typically the first step in metering with OpenTelemetry. In some language SDKs, a global Meter Provider is already initialized for you.

### Meter
A Meter creates metric instruments, capturing measurements about a service at runtime. Meters are created from Meter Providers.

### Metric Exporter
Metric Exporters send metric data to a consumer. This consumer can be standard output for debugging during development, the OpenTelemetry Collector, or any open source or vendor backend of your choice.

### Metric Instruments
In OpenTelemetry measurements are captured by metric instruments. A metric instrument is defined by:

- Name
- Kind
- Unit (optional)
- Description (optional)

The name, unit, and description are chosen by the developer or defined via semantic conventions for common ones like request and process metrics.

The instrument kind is one of the following:

- **Counter**: A value that accumulates over time – you can think of this like an odometer on a car; it only ever goes up.
- **Asynchronous Counter**: Same as the Counter, but is collected once for each export. Could be used if you don’t have access to the continuous increments, but only to the aggregated value.
- **UpDownCounter**: A value that accumulates over time, but can also go down again. An example could be a queue length, it will increase and decrease with the number of work items in the queue.
- **Asynchronous UpDownCounter**: Same as the UpDownCounter, but is collected once for each export. Could be used if you don’t have access to the continuous changes, but only to the aggregated value (e.g., current queue size).
- **Gauge**: Measures a current value at the time it is read. An example would be the fuel gauge in a vehicle. Gauges are asynchronous.
- **Histogram**: A client-side aggregation of values, such as request latencies. A histogram is a good choice if you are interested in value statistics. For example: How many requests take fewer than 1s?

For more on synchronous and asynchronous instruments, and which kind is best suited for your use case, see Supplementary Guidelines.

## Aggregation
In addition to the metric instruments, the concept of aggregations is an important one to understand. An aggregation is a technique whereby a large number of measurements are combined into either exact or estimated statistics about metric events that took place during a time window. The OTLP protocol transports such aggregated metrics. The OpenTelemetry API provides a default aggregation for each instrument which can be overridden using the Views. The OpenTelemetry project aims to provide default aggregations that are supported by visualizers and telemetry backends.

Unlike request tracing, which is intended to capture request lifecycles and provide context to the individual pieces of a request, metrics are intended to provide statistical information in aggregate. Some examples of use cases for metrics include:

- Reporting the total number of bytes read by a service, per protocol type.
- Reporting the total number of bytes read and the bytes per request.
- Reporting the duration of a system call.
- Reporting request sizes in order to determine a trend.
- Reporting CPU or memory usage of a process.
- Reporting average balance values from an account.
- Reporting current active requests being handled.
## Views
A view provides SDK users with the flexibility to customize the metrics output by the SDK. You can customize which metric instruments are to be processed or ignored. You can also customize aggregation and what attributes you want to report on metrics.

# Prometheus
## Counter
A counter is a cumulative metric that represents a single monotonically increasing counter whose value can only increase or be reset to zero on restart. For example, you can use a counter to represent the number of requests served, tasks completed, or errors.

Do not use a counter to expose a value that can decrease. For example, do not use a counter for the number of currently running processes; instead use a gauge.

## Gauge
A gauge is a metric that represents a single numerical value that can arbitrarily go up and down.

Gauges are typically used for measured values like temperatures or current memory usage, but also "counts" that can go up and down, like the number of concurrent requests.


## Histogram
A histogram samples observations (usually things like request durations or response sizes) and counts them in configurable buckets. It also provides a sum of all observed values.

A histogram with a base metric name of <basename> exposes multiple time series during a scrape:

cumulative counters for the observation buckets, exposed as <basename>_bucket{le="<upper inclusive bound>"}
the total sum of all observed values, exposed as <basename>_sum
the count of events that have been observed, exposed as <basename>_count (identical to <basename>_bucket{le="+Inf"} above)
Use the histogram_quantile() function to calculate quantiles from histograms or even aggregations of histograms. A histogram is also suitable to calculate an Apdex score. When operating on buckets, remember that the histogram is cumulative. See histograms and summaries for details of histogram usage and differences to summaries.


## Summary
Similar to a histogram, a summary samples observations (usually things like request durations and response sizes). While it also provides a total count of observations and a sum of all observed values, it calculates configurable quantiles over a sliding time window.

A summary with a base metric name of <basename> exposes multiple time series during a scrape:

streaming φ-quantiles (0 ≤ φ ≤ 1) of observed events, exposed as <basename>{quantile="<φ>"}
the total sum of all observed values, exposed as <basename>_sum
the count of events that have been observed, exposed as <basename>_count
See histograms and summaries for detailed explanations of φ-quantiles, summary usage, and differences to histograms.

# ELK metricbeat
ELK与上述两个有所不同,可能因为elastic并非时序数据库，因此如下:
Metricbeat consists of modules and metricsets. A Metricbeat module defines the basic logic for collecting data from a specific service, such as Redis, MySQL, and so on. The module specifies details about the service, including how to connect, how often to collect metrics, and which metrics to collect.